sql server Data Type

char(n)   	It is a fixed width character string data type. Its size can be up to 8000 characters.
varchar(n)	It is a variable width character string data type. Its size can be up to 8000 characters.
varchar(max)	It is a variable width character string data types. Its size can be up to 1,073,741,824 characters.
text	        It is a variable width character string data type. Its size can be up to 2GB of text data.
nchar	        It is a fixed width Unicode string data type. Its size can be up to 4000 characters.
nvarchar	It is a variable width Unicode string data type. Its size can be up to 4000 characters.
ntext	        It is a variable width Unicode string data type. Its size can be up to 2GB of text data.
binary(n)	It is a fixed width Binary string data type. Its size can be up to 8000 bytes.
varbinary	It is a variable width Binary string data type. Its size can be up to 8000 bytes.
image		It is also a variable width Binary string data type. Its size can be up to 2GB.
bit		It is an integer that can be 0, 1 or null.
tinyint		It allows whole numbers from 0 to 255.
Smallint	It allows whole numbers between -32,768 and 32,767.
Int		It allows whole numbers between -2,147,483,648 and 2,147,483,647.
bigint		It allows whole numbers between -9,223,372,036,854,775,808 and 9,223,372,036,854,775,807.
datetime	It is used to specify date and time combination. accuracy of 3.33 milliseconds.
datetime2	It is used to specify date and time combination.accuracy of 100 nanoseconds

oracle server

CHAR(size)	It is used to store character data within the predefined length. It can be stored up to 2000 bytes.
NCHAR(size)	It is used to store national character data within the predefined length. It can be stored up to 2000 bytes.
VARCHAR2(size)	It is used to store variable string data within the predefined length. It can be stored up to 4000 byte.
VARCHAR(SIZE)	It is the same as VARCHAR2(size). You can also use VARCHAR(size), but it is suggested to use VARCHAR2(size)
VARCHAR2(size)	It is used to store Unicode string data within the predefined length. We have to must specify the size of VARCHAR2 data type. It can be stored up to 4000 bytes.
NUMBER(p, s)	It contains precision p and scale s. The precision p can range from 1 to 38, and the scale s can range from -84 to 127.
FLOAT(p)	It is a subtype of the NUMBER data type. The precision p can range from 1 to 126.
BINARY_FLOAT	It is used for binary precision( 32-bit). It requires 5 bytes, including length byte.
BINARY_DOUBLE	It is used for double binary precision (64-bit). It requires 9 bytes, including length byte.
DATE		It is used to store a valid date-time format with a fixed length. Its range varies from January 1, 4712 BC to December 31, 9999 AD.
TIMESTAMP	It is used to store the valid date in YYYY-MM-DD with time hh:mm:ss format.
BLOB		It is used to specify unstructured binary data. Its range goes up to 232-1 bytes or 4 GB.
BFILE		It is used to store binary data in an external file. Its range goes up to 232-1 bytes or 4 GB.
CLOB		It is used for single-byte character data. Its range goes up to 232-1 bytes or 4 GB.
NCLOB		It is used to specify single byte or fixed length multibyte national character set (NCHAR) data. Its range is up to 232-1 bytes or 4 GB.
RAW(size)	It is used to specify variable length raw binary data. Its range is up to 2000 bytes per row. Its maximum size must be specified.
LONG RAW	It is used to specify variable length raw binary data. Its range up to 231-1 bytes or 2 GB, per row.

binary(n)	It’s fixed-length binary data and we can store maximum 8000 bytes	Based on the defined size
varbinary	It’s variable-length binary data and we can store maximum 8000 bytes	Based on number of bytes
varbinary(max)	It’s a variable-length character string and we can store maximum 2GB data	Based on the number of bytes


cursor		It is used to store a reference to cursor object
XML		It is used to store XML formatted data and we can store maximum 2GB data
table		It is used to store table result set for processing at a later time
uniqueidentifier	It is used to store globally unique identifier (GUID)
sql_variant	It is used to store values of various sql supported data types except text,ntext, varchar(max), xml, etc… We can store a maximum of 8000 bytes




key words


Keyword	Description:

ADD			Adds a column in an existing table
ADD CONSTRAINT		Adds a constraint after a table is already created
ALL			Returns true if all of the subquery values meet the condition
ALTER			Adds, deletes, or modifies columns in a table, or changes the data type of a column in a table
ALTER COLUMN		Changes the data type of a column in a table
ALTER TABLE		Adds, deletes, or modifies columns in a table
AND			Only includes rows where both conditions is true
ANY			Returns true if any of the subquery values meet the condition
AS			Renames a column or table with an alias
ASC			Sorts the result set in ascending order
BACKUP DATABASE		Creates a back up of an existing database
BETWEEN			Selects values within a given range
CHECK			A constraint that limits the value that can be placed in a column
COLUMN			Changes the data type of a column or deletes a column in a table
CONSTRAINT		Adds or deletes a constraint
CREATE			Creates a database, index, view, table, or procedure
CREATE DATABASE		Creates a new SQL database
CREATE OR REPLACE VIEW	Updates a view
CREATE TABLE		Creates a new table in the database
CREATE VIEW		Creates a view based on the result set of a SELECT statement
DATABASE		Creates or deletes an SQL database
DEFAULT			A constraint that provides a default value for a column
DELETE			Deletes rows from a table
DESC			Sorts the result set in descending order
DISTINCT		Selects only distinct (different) values
DROP			Deletes a column, constraint, database, index, table, or view
DROP COLUMN		Deletes a column in a table
DROP CONSTRAINT		Deletes a UNIQUE, PRIMARY KEY, FOREIGN KEY, or CHECK constraint
DROP DATABASE		Deletes an existing SQL database
DROP DEFAULT		Deletes a DEFAULT constraint
DROP INDEX		Deletes an index in a table
DROP TABLE		Deletes an existing table in the database
DROP VIEW		Deletes a view
EXEC			Executes a stored procedure
EXISTS			Tests for the existence of any record in a subquery
FOREIGN KEY		A constraint that is a key used to link two tables together
FROM			Specifies which table to select or delete data from
FULL OUTER JOIN		Returns all rows when there is a match in either left table or right table
GROUP BY		Groups the result set (used with aggregate functions: COUNT, MAX, MIN, SUM, AVG)
HAVING			Used instead of WHERE with aggregate functions
IN			Allows you to specify multiple values in a WHERE clause
INDEX			Creates or deletes an index in a table
INNER JOIN		Returns rows that have matching values in both tables
INSERT INTO		Inserts new rows in a table
INSERT INTO SELECT	Copies data from one table into another table
IS NULL			Tests for empty values
IS NOT NULL		Tests for non-empty values
JOIN			Joins tables
LEFT JOIN		Returns all rows from the left table, and the matching rows from the right table
LIKE			Searches for a specified pattern in a column
LIMIT			Specifies the number of records to return in the result set
NOT			Only includes rows where a condition is not true
NOT NULL		A constraint that enforces a column to not accept NULL values
OR			Includes rows where either condition is true
ORDER BY		Sorts the result set in ascending or descending order
OUTER JOIN		Returns all rows when there is a match in either left table or right table
PRIMARY KEY		A constraint that uniquely identifies each record in a database table
PROCEDURE		A stored procedure
RIGHT JOIN		Returns all rows from the right table, and the matching rows from the left table
ROWNUM			Specifies the number of records to return in the result set
SELECT			Selects data from a database
SELECT DISTINCT		Selects only distinct (different) values
SELECT INTO		Copies data from one table into a new table
SELECT TOP		Specifies the number of records to return in the result set
SET			Specifies which columns and values that should be updated in a table
TABLE			Creates a table, or adds, deletes, or modifies columns in a table, or deletes a table or data inside a table
TOP			Specifies the number of records to return in the result set
TRUNCATE		TABLE	Deletes the data inside a table, but not the table itself
UNION			Combines the result set of two or more SELECT statements (only distinct values)
UNION ALL		Combines the result set of two or more SELECT statements (allows duplicate values)
UNIQUE			A constraint that ensures that all values in a column are unique
UPDATE			Updates existing rows in a table
VALUES			Specifies the values of an INSERT INTO statement
VIEW			Creates, updates, or deletes a view
WHERE	
		Filters a result set to include only records that fulfill a specified condition



Single Line Comments
Single line comments start with --
Multi-line Comments
Multi-line comments start with /* and end with */


operators

1.arithmetic operators(+,-,*,/,%)
2.comparision operators(=,!=,<,>,<=,>=)
3.concatenaton operators(||)
	used to join string by using concatenation operators we can join morethan 2 string

4.set operators
	union(data type and column must be same,its eleminate the duplicates values,add two tables)
	union all(data type and column must be same,its not eleminate the duplicates values,add two tables)
	interset(data type and column must be same,its not eleminate the duplicates values,insert value of two tables)
	minus(display the rows which are presented in the first query by absent in second query,no duplicates,default arranged in ascending)
5.logical operators
	add(multiple  where condition,all must true)
	or(multiple  where condition,either true or false)
	not(should not)
6.special opearators
	in(column in (v1,v2...))
	not in(column not in (v1,v2...))
	is(column is null))
	is not(column is not null)
	between(column between lowerrange and higer range)
	not between(column not between lowerrange and higer range)
	like(retrive the patterns matching .we percentile(%),underscore(_))
	not like(retri ve the patterns matching .we percentile(%),underscore(_))

7.sub query operators

	all
	any
	exists
	not exists

8.bitwise operators
	Bitwise AND (&)
	Bitwise OR(|)
	